---
layout: page
title: Audience
redirect_from: /audience/
---

The long-term goal of this site is to help two large groups of people:
1) Students in a classroom at a college or university; and 2) Free-range
learners, or folks who aren't taking a formal class and are interested
in learning online on their own time. We are starting with the classroom
students and then attempting to build on the material generated to make
it maximally useful to the broader audience of biologists who want to
learn how to use programming and database management systems. We are
interested in helping folks who are complete beginners and those who
already have some programming background.

To encourage folks to use this material all of general material on this
site is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution License and all
programs are licensed under the MIT License.

Examples of folks who we are trying to help:

**Allen:** An undergraduate student in a biology related field who
either realizes that computers are going to be important in whatever
area of biology he ends up working or likes computers and thinks
learning about them be more fun than the other available electives. He
has never programmed before and doesn't really know what a database is.

**Jenny:** A graduate student with a background in doing hands on
biology either in the lab or the field. Now that she's in graduate
school she's realized that managing the data she's collecting in a
reasonable way is going to be important (working with the hodge podge of
poorly structured spreadsheets that her lab uses is awful), and doing
all of the analysis that she needs to conduct for her dissertation seems
like it would be a lot easier if it could be automated.

**Jason:** A graduate student or postdoc with a self-taught programming
background. A lot of his research involves programming and he advises
all of his lab mates on computer related things, but he'd like to know
more about how to do things well. Besides, having an opportunity to
interact with other folks who really value computers is really
appealing.

**Lisa:** A graduate student or postdoc who took a couple of computer
science classes in college. She has done some object oriented
programming and published a couple of programs that people use, but
she's starting to realize that compared to real professionals she has no
idea what she's doing. She doesn't use tools like version control,
automated testing, and debuggers. She realizes that now is the time to
learn these skills before she is too busy as a new faculty member.

**Paul:** A faculty member with little computer background who realizes
that computing has become so central to his area of research that he
needs to at least have a rough idea of how his students are work the
magic they do for projects with a lot of programming. Even better he'd
like to get to the point where he can really engage and help out.
